1.what is cloud computing?
Ans.: cloud computing is the delivery of computing services—including servers,
      storage, databases, networking, software, analytics, and intelligence—over the 
      Internet (“the cloud”) to offer faster innovation, flexible resources, and economies of scale.


2. what are the different types of cloud based on service and deployement?
ans. There are 4 main types of cloud computing: private clouds, public clouds, 
     hybrid clouds, and multiclouds. 
     There are also 3 main types of cloud computing services: 
     Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS), Platforms-as-a-Service (PaaS), and 
     Software-as-a-Service (SaaS).

3. what is scaling?
ans. scaling is the process of adding or removing compute, storage, and network services
     to meet the demands a workload makes for resources in order to maintain availability
     and performance as utilization increases.


4. what are the different types of scaling? explain?
ans. there are 2 types of scaling
	1. Horizontal scaling
	2. vertical scaling

     1. Horizontal scaling: horizontal scaling is about adding or removing more machines of 
        similar capacity to the infrastructure in order to handle an increase in load.

     2. Vertical scaling:  It is the ability to increase or decrease the capacity of existing
	hardware or software by adding resources.

5. What are the advantages of cloud?
ans. 1.Cost Savings
     2.Security
     3.Flexibility
     4.Mobility
     5.Insight
     6.Increased Collaboration
     7.Disaster Recovery
     8.Loss Prevention

6. What is a data center? 
ans. A data center is a facility that centralizes an organization's shared IT operations and equipment
     for the purposes of storing, processing, and disseminating data and applications.
     or 
     data centers are the storage of multiple server in a single place

7. What do you mean multi-tenant?
ans. multiple customer consume services delivered using shared infrasructure

8. What do you mean by Pay-as-you-go?
ans. Pay-as-You-Go business models gives people the ability to pay for what they use as they need it and can afford it.
     In the case of devices or hardware, ownership is transferred to the end customer over time.

9. What do you mean by cloud provider?
ans. A cloud service provider is a third-party company offering a cloud-based platform, infrastructure,
    application or storage services.

10. What is cloud service?
ans. cloud computing is the delivery of computing services—including servers, storage, databases, networking, software, 
     analytics, and intelligence—over the Internet (“the cloud”) to offer faster innovation, flexible resources, 
     and economies of scale. 

11. What are the key characteristics of cloud computing?
ans. Anything as a service” (XaaS) describes a general category of services related to cloud computing and remote access.
     It recognizes the vast number of products, tools, and technologies that are now delivered to users as a service
     over the internet
